I want to welcome everybody to the something,
something hundredth episode of Talk Python To Me.
I am your host, Jay Miller.
Our normal host, Michael Kennedy,
apparently had some flight issues. Oh no, he's here.
>> I'm here. Hello, everyone.
>> We talked about this and I said,
"I have an idea, trust me."
And you said, "Okay."
>> I trust you, Jay. This will be fine.
>> I think a lot of people have made that mistake in the past.
but I'm going to be interviewing you.
And for those that don't know, I'm Jay Miller.
I am a now six-time guest on the show.
I think you get a jacket for that.
- You're in the 1%.
You're a 1%.
- I am in the 1%.
- The top 1% of guests.
- The only person who's been on the show more times
than me is my boss, which is annoying,
'cause he will rub it in after he hears this.
But yeah, Mike, we've been kind of working together
for what, four years now?
>> Four or five years.
>> Four or five years. For those that don't know,
I do a little bit of marketing behind the scenes.
So, if you get that newsletter,
if you're not subscribed to
the Talk Python newsletter, you need to be.
I work really hard on that.
By the way, it may not come out
this weekend because I'm here.
Just so you know.
But yes, so we've known each other for four or five years.
I think I was on like episode 15 or something like that.
>> Yeah, quite early. About developer productivity.
>> Yeah.
>> It's wonderful.
>> So, I wanted to take this time to ask you
questions similar to what you would do.
Let's start with one of the easiest ones of why a podcast?
>> Why a podcast? Well, I had done a lot of different things
trying to teach people coding and evangelize coding,
and that involved things like going to user group talks,
or doing trainings and all these were like,
"Hey, it's awesome.
20 people showed up and are really engaged,
but what if you leverage the Internet to reach more people?"
>> Yeah.
>> That was really one of the motivations,
is just how can you have a bigger impact.
When I got started with Talk Python,
there were zero Python podcasts.
I'm like, "Why are there zero Python podcasts?"
There had been some before,
but they'd all shut down.
I'm like, "That doesn't make any sense.
such a vibrant community and no one
to interview and share the stories of it.
So, here we are, seven, eight years later.
>> Yeah. I mean, you've really trailblazed that industry.
I think since your show,
we've had Tobias started podcasting it.
Dan has a Real Python podcast.
I think Chris is running. Hey, is that Chris right there?
>> Yeah, that is Chris.
He's giving a shout out right here.
>> Speaking of the Real Python podcast right there,
>> I think Sean's here from Teaching Python.
>> Sean and Tibor is here.
>> We've even seen it expand into
kind of smaller niches like Django,
and we have like the Django chats.
>> Yeah, Django chats.
>> Some of those shows and I mean,
a little show Python Community News on YouTube.
Go check that out. But it's great
that you started this thing
because there wasn't a thing there,
and then afterwards, a ton of shows showed up.
And I see some other podcasters in the audience.
I think I see like a Python bytes and tests and code.
Brian Okken here as well.
How does it feel to see that now that you kick-started things,
the ecosystem is thriving?
>> I think it's fantastic. Like I said,
the goal was to share
the stories of this community that weren't being told.
And now I think so many people have taken up that torch.
It's great. And I think there's room for all of us.
we all have kind of our own special flavor
and people can gravitate to what they like.
- Yeah, yeah.
And you've interviewed a few hundred people.
- I think we're over 450 different guests
so far in the show.
- Did you think there was that much to talk about
in the Python space?
- No, I had a plan, Jay, I had a plan.
And it involved five episodes.
- Okay. - I'm like, okay,
the first five, the first one was me announcing the show.
So four, I'm like, okay, I know four people
who I can interview about this.
Talked about SQLAlchemy, talked about Pyramid,
the web framework, and a couple of other things.
And I'm like, all right, now what?
But thankfully, so many people were really excited
that, hey, there finally is a Python podcast.
That was a great show.
You should talk to so-and-so.
And this, have you considered this?
And now it's just a snowball going downhill.
It's great.
But I had no idea it would make it this far, no.
- That's awesome.
So I know that just between you and I working together,
we have developed things for the show
to make the show easier to manage and maintain.
Has there been any projects that you've
developed that have come out of inspiration from the show?
Oh, yeah.
There's tons of software behind the scenes
that are all about automation and different kinds of things,
both for the podcast itself and the courses.
It's amazing just how much these little tiny scripts or
little things you can write in an afternoon that
will just completely change your workday.
You're like, "You know what? This used to be such a pain and
now it's completely automatic or it's almost automatic."
Really great transcripts, some of the new AI stuff,
used to ship the files all over to different servers.
Now, I've got to set up differently.
But just a ton of software that's constantly written.
It's never ending fun and it's also a really cool playground.
>> Yeah.
>> Like I really want to learn
FastAPI or I want to learn this thing.
Let me just use that for
this little small project I got and
now I have some experience with it. It's great.
>> I have definitely gotten to witness like,
"Oh, hey, just add this thing and
now it'll run and do all this stuff."
Then usually I come in and I go,
"Hey, I built something too."
You're like, "I can't get it to work."
I go, "Oh, yeah. I broke it. I'm sorry.
Your entire show is down."
>> That's fine.
I don't think I've done that yet.
I haven't, I haven't, I've brought an entire networks down.
I don't think I've brought in the podcast down yet.
- I think the thing that took the site down
for the longest was the Walrus operator.
- The Walrus operator.
- Shout out to the Walrus operator.
That's my favorite part of Python.
- Thank you, Emily.
No, the Walrus operator is awesome,
but when the servers were running 3.7
and I was running 3.8 on my dev machine,
I have these little management scripts
for all this kind of stuff we're talking about, right?
- Yeah.
- And I'm like, well, that part's not part
the website, I'll do that, I'll write
Walrus operator code and all sorts of stuff.
When I shipped it, the framework tried to
scan to see if there was any routes in there,
and it couldn't parse it and it just couldn't start.
I'm like, "Why won't there be?
I haven't even touched it. What's going on?"
I'm like, "Oh, the Walrus operator took it down."
>> That's funny. So you've interviewed a ton of people,
and I'm not going to ask you
to say who's your favorite person to interview,
because we know the answer is me.
>> Yes.
I want to, what were some of
the most surprising interviews that you had?
>> There's a whole set of categories,
different categories of surprising, right?
And your shows were very interesting
and I really enjoyed talking to you about them.
They're really inspiring because they're not just,
here's this API, but they were higher level, right?
Like developer productivity and stuff.
However, I would say the stuff that surprises me the most is,
where people are doing things you
wouldn't have expected with Python.
Like, "Oh, hey, we're actually using machine learning in
Python to find exoplanets in old stale Kepler data."
>> Yeah.
>> And so, there's this group in Oxford who found
50 exoplanets running machine learning
across data they thought was already analyzed and done.
And you would learn weird things like they said,
"We used to have grad students do it,
And that was OK, but it was really variable,
like the mood of the grad student mattered.
For example, at Oxford, they always
had cookies and coffee at 3.
So more exoplanets were found after 3 than before 3.
There's no difference in the data, but you know.
And they're like, if we could bring some automation,
that might make science a little more scientific.
Developer productivity tip-- add cookies and coffee
to your daily routine, right?
Yeah, for sure, for sure.
So I'm thinking about a particular episode
that I was on where you had Rivers Cuomo from Weezer.
- That was one of the more known words, yes.
- That was, I just, I remember getting the message
from you of like, hey, you're gonna be on the show
this week, and I was like, I can't, I've gotta,
he's like, no, no, no, no, no, you are going
to be on the show this week.
- You'll want to be here, trust me, yes.
- And then just being like, having to pick my jaw
off the floor because like, you know,
you had a rock star on the show.
And I think that that is one of the beauties of podcasting
is that just like Python is kind of stretched outside
of developer community and is kind of branched
into data science and branched into automation
and hopefully we'll see Python in more and more spaces,
like we're seeing it in places that no one would expect,
like on stage, like with Rivers Cuomo.
What was that like?
How did that happen?
So Rivers has an assistant who coordinates a bunch of stuff
and send me a message and said,
the assistant sent me a message.
Rivers would like to be on the show.
I'm like, "That is amazing."
But you do understand it's a Python show and I
hadn't realized how much coding he had done.
So I actually got to go out and spend some time with
him when he was in Portland at a concert.
>> Rub it in. Rub it in. I like it.
>> We hung out a little bit. He's like, "Let me
show you all the code I'm writing."
And we just had a great time geeking out before the show.
And after I saw him like,
"You have to be on the show.
What you're doing is so awesome.
So yeah, he's doing legitimately cool stuff.
>> I think now he's actually contributing
to open source in Python as well.
>> Yeah, I saw him and Brett Cannon
going back forth on some work.
>> Let's not talk about Brett Cannon.
He's not here right now. He'll be back tomorrow.
You can ask him questions about that at the Ask Me Anything.
>> Anyway, it was really awesome to have him on the show.
It was cool to have you there as well.
That was a real popular one.
That was in the vein of what you opened this conversation with.
It was a bunch of little automation tools that don't count as
like, "Hey, I built Instagram," but they're like,
"This is a really amazing thing I built,
even if it only took a day,
it was super powerful."
>> Yeah. All right.
So, we're about halfway through the interview.
We understand that people want to get to talk.
So, what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead
and raffle off a pair of Surface earbuds.
Also, if you want to catch the talks,
feel free to go do that.
This will be on the podcast.
Where can people find the podcast while
you're looking for a number here?
I don't want to be biased.
- You want to influence me?
I'm not even looking.
- Yeah, how do you?
- Talkpython.fm or you go to your,
any podcast player and just search for Talk Python.
- Okay, okay.
- How do I read the number?
- Yeah, just read the number, read the number.
- All right, I wasn't paid that much for this, so.
The last four numbers are five, four, eight.
- Oh wait, five, four, eight.
- Five, four, eight, congratulations.
- Aw.
- Thank you, love the numbers.
- Congratulations.
So, going back to that, kind of that idea of like,
hey, these are little tools and now they're being
used with super amazing people in the Python space.
Have you heard of anybody getting
into Python because of your show?
>> I've heard of a lot of people getting into there.
You know, when I started the show,
going back to the beginning a little bit,
when I started the show, I expected,
well, I tried to think, well,
who will listen to a show about
the people making these frameworks in these libraries?
It's got to be the most hardcore developers,
the people who maybe wrote that library or really,
really into it, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Sure, people like that listening, it's great.
But there's a bunch of people who listen and they'll say things like,
"I'm starting to understand what you all are talking about after six weeks."
I'm like, "Why have you listened to six weeks and not know what I'm talking about?
It's really a kind of an honor,
but why would you do that?"
What they do is they're using it as language immersion.
If I just immerse myself in this community,
soon enough I will be a Python person.
If I move to Brazil,
maybe I could learn Portuguese if I just force myself to it.
And there's a lot of people like that.
So, there are a lot of people on that journey.
>> And then I guess in the same vein,
has any of the feedback from the show that you've done,
kind of gone into some of the other things that you
do like Talk Python Training?
>> Constantly. I'll talk about something like this,
might be interesting in everybody's. This is so amazing, so interesting. I want to
learn more. I'm like, okay, well, maybe I should put some more effort into it.
Either have more shows or do a course or something like that. Yeah, absolutely.
Very cool. So I guess I got one more question and then I'm gonna go, I'm gonna
do the thing that you do at the end. All right. So you have, the show itself
has kind of migrated. It started as a podcast only and then I saw you start
doing some videos, and then of course,
the courses were always kind of a big part of this.
And now you've kind of integrated
that live stream component to it as well.
How was making that change from it being pre-recorded,
pre-talked, just you and the person you're interviewing,
to now you have all of those things,
but also a live audience listening over the internet?
- Yeah, so smash the bell on YouTube, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
Like and subscribe, ring the bell, all that stuff.
- Yeah, so seriously though, it was a big decision
to make it a live show.
And there were two things I was worried about.
One is, will the guests who used to just sort of
call up one-on-one and say, let's have a conversation,
and then you'll edit it right?
Because if I say something, I'm really new to this,
and if you edit it, I think I can build up
the confidence to be on there, like, oh guess what?
We're live streaming it to the world,
and it'll be written in ink on YouTube.
That's a different sort of deal.
And for the most part, people haven't minded.
At first, they're like, "I'm a little nervous."
I'm like, "It's fine, really, you'll be fine.
"It has been fine every time."
- It's always like the first time you go on a live stream,
you're like, "I don't know what to do.
"Do I stare at the camera?
"Do I look at the screen?"
But then after that, they're like,
"Oh, that was so fun engaging with the audience live
"and seeing the comments and doing all that stuff."
- Yeah, absolutely.
From a logistics perspective,
it's taken the effort down a little bit.
Ironically, doing more, you'd think the livestream
would add something, but we have people join the livestream
and ask questions, so we can kind of make the audience
part of the show, and like, oh, I should've asked
that question, but so-and-so in the live chat did.
That helps, and then also, if it's already live,
you don't have to edit it as much, 'cause it's kind of,
you're a little more on focus, because you're like,
instead of like, hey, can we do that again,
or can we talk, or can we pause it,
like, you know we're livestreaming, we're just gonna go,
And it works out, but it kind of takes away some of the going
back and fixing it up.
But it's been really cool.
I got into it--
I think the real motivation to get into it
was through a common friend of ours, Cecil Philip.
And I interviewed him and Brian Clark
about their live streaming, their developer stuff.
And I was like, that's pretty cool what they're doing.
How are you doing it?
The stuff over at Stripe that they're doing?
No, no, when he was at Microsoft.
Oh, OK.
some of the like ask the expert stuff that we do.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, now we're doing it on the Microsoft YouTube channel.
I was like the YouTube at Microsoft developer.
>> Right on.
>> Cool.
>> Yeah. So anyway, he got me inspired watching what they were
doing and got me using things like StreamYard.
Yeah, it's real good.
>> Very awesome. I love it. All right.
So normally you have some rapid fire questions at the end.
So I have some rapid fire questions for you.
We're at PyCon 2023.
What was your first PyCon US?
My first PyCon US I think was in Portland,
my hometown in 2015.
>> In 2015.
>> 2015, 2016.
The irony was for that one year I was living in Germany,
so I had to fly back,
rent a hotel, stay a mile from my house,
who someone else lived in it at
the time because I was renting it,
and then go to PyCon.
So it was like a huge trip even though it was
only two miles, three miles from my house.
But it was a great time.
>> What is the one conference talk
that you always go back and listen to or watch?
- Oh, the one conference talk, oh boy.
I would say,
The Birth and Death of JavaScript by Gary Bernhardt,
which is, have you seen this?
- I think I've seen it once.
- It's, whenever I gotta do reference stuff
with like low level JavaScript and stuff,
I mean I know it's, this is Python and all,
But I think he gave that at a Python conference
as a comedy thing.
But it's also a really interesting history
of JavaScript as both drama.
I don't know.
If you haven't seen it, it's worth checking out.
All right, two more rapid fire questions.
What is your favorite addition or update to Python
since you've been using it?
I thought I was going to--
I almost started like, oh, that's easy.
But then there's two things that are really, really--
OK, you can do two.
I'm going to do two.
I'm going to take two.
Async and await, type hints.
OK, shout out to type hints.
Type hints is--
Shout out, yeah.
f-strings are probably up there for me.
f-strings are like in the top five.
Type hints are definitely up there.
Walrus operator, you got a special place in my heart.
You can take a site down.
You can take a whole website down in a matter of seconds
with that thing.
No, the walrus operator is great.
And then the last question is one that you normally ask.
What is your favorite Python module or package?
>> Yeah. There's a bunch of
interesting ones I run across with Python bytes.
Like Brian Okken, we find a bunch there.
One that is really cool to me is Unsync.
It just unifies threading,
multiprocessing, and async and await in a nice cool way.
I haven't been able to use it as much as I'd like,
but I really like that one.
I just want to give a shout out to Latexify.
>> Okay.
>> You sure it's not latechify?
>> Yeah.
>> You don't want the latech people,
or sorry, latech people coming after us.
>> Let me rephrase it. I meant latechify.
You can put a decorator onto a function.
>> Okay.
>> A Python function that does math inside,
and will write the symbolic
mathematical representation of the Python code you wrote.
>> Oh, that's really cool.
>> It's insane.
>> That's really cool.
>> You can't do everything, but it'll be like, okay,
well, that's an infinite sum from zero to infinity of this.
How does it know? It's insane.
>> Anyway.
>> That's awesome. Well, Mike, again, thank you so much.
Again, we've known each other for half a decade now.
I hope we make it to a decade and more of
working together and doing Talk Python stuff.
Again, give people one more opportunity to
know where they can learn more about the show.
>> Yeah. If you're not subscribed,
check it out at talkpython.fm or look for
Talk Python in your podcast players.
Really, really appreciate everyone.
I mean, since I'm on this side of the microphone,
Right, I genuinely want to say thank you to everyone here,
but everyone who listens to the show.
It's been such an honor,
and it's so cool to be able to do that.
You know, that's my full-time job now,
is running the podcast.
- That's awesome.
- And I just, when I started,
I thought, oh, this would be a cool hobby on the side.
Like I said, five episodes,
and I got to figure it out from there.
It's just been such a great response from everyone,
and thankful every day.
And thank you for working.
I also, 10 years.
Let's do it, it'll be easy.
>> Yeah. We'll make it happen.
Thank you for letting us host
this event at the Microsoft booth.
I think we actually have a gift for you as well.
Aaron, do you have one of the-
>> What?
>> We have an extra pair of Surface earbuds.
>> Oh, that's awesome.
>> Especially for you.
As a thank you one for doing this,
but also a thank you for all that you
do within the Python community.
Everyone, this has been Michael Kennedy.
I've been Jay Miller. This has been Talk Python Live.
Let's give Michael a hand, wonderful hand,
for all that he's done for the past several years.
(audience applauding)
- Thank you, everyone.
Hey, Mario.
- Hey, Mike.
- Great to see you here at the conference.
- I'm happy to meet you.
- Yeah, same here.
First of all, before we get into it,
just tell people quickly who are you.
Introduce yourself.
- My name's Mario.
I live in Southern California,
and I write a blog called Python by Night,
which, you know, it's my hobby thing I do
when the kids asleep, when my wife is asleep.
That's what I do.
- Yeah, some people play games.
We write code or write blogs or whatever, awesome.
So how's the commerce going for you?
- Oh man, I'm having a great time.
- Are you?
- It's my second PyCon.
And this morning I gave a lightning talk
about being either a fly on the wall or a busy worker bee.
And I've been a busy worker bee.
- Yeah, you said the first time you came here,
were speaking at lunch. You said the first time you came here, you kind of just held back and
you're kind of just observing and watching from the outside and you kind of dove in with your
feet first. You know, I tend to, I tend to be in the background most of the time, but yeah,
I saw a tweet, I think asking for help over at the Python software foundation booth last year.
And it includes beanbags by the way. It includes beanbags. Anyway, I went and helped out last year,
met a lot of cool people. Then I just thought I should volunteer more. I got to meet a whole
bunch of people I had only heard of or seen online, like some to me, Python heroes. And I
thought this was excellent. So this year I just dove in and tripled that or quadrupled that, I
guess. Yeah. Awesome. It seems like you're having a great time. I'm having a great time. Awesome.
What is your plan Ben? Some people try to go all the talks and people hallway track it. Some
Some people just go to the parties.
What's your, what's your plan?
let's see.
So I guess I was so intent on getting my tutorial, which was on Wednesday, the
very first tutorial that I hadn't even made a plan.
I just was so focused on that.
Once I gave the tutorial, I was breathing easy, but I had already
volunteered to help with the online platform.
I was helping with the booth again.
So that kind of kept me busy.
I had planned to attend a couple of talks.
I've only been to two maybe.
Yeah.
So the plan was to survive the tutorial and then figure it out for them.
And then figure it out.
How'd it go?
It was HTMX, right?
One of the fine technologies integrated with Python.
Fantastic.
I feel like I've been talking about it all conference.
I've talked to people individually.
I had an open space about it.
I talked about it at lunch.
So it's, there's a real kind of a very palpable energy that people feel
when they see what it can do.
It's pretty exciting.
A bunch of people have been putting off learning JavaScript because
they felt they have to, and you're like, wait.
You don't actually have to do that.
- You don't have to. - You don't have to.
- You really, keep it by the--
- I haven't learned JavaScript, so.
- Yeah, exactly.
Not knocking on people who have and they're welcome to,
but if you don't want to, you shouldn't be made to.
- Yeah, it's not an either/or, it's both/and,
but if you don't have to, you don't have to.
- Yeah, the irony is, even Node.js JavaScript,
people like it, because they don't have to write front-end
JavaScript, they can write back-end JavaScript.
- Right, yeah.
- There's something in it for everyone.
- Yeah, so that's been mostly it.
I love the hallway track, I love meeting people,
I, I got a picture with Ned who, you know, he gave it awesome opening keynote.
You know, all sorts of people that I'm meeting for the first time.
Other people I met last year.
It's fantastic.
Yeah.
Awesome.
What's your big takeaways?
What has stood out for you?
I mean, there's a bunch of cool stuff back here behind us at the expo hall and.
Other things you probably saw talks like what, what stood out.
What stood out.
I think, you know, part of it is just coming, coming away from it.
from these past couple years have been tough.
Just not seeing a lot of people.
And it is still kind of weird to see a lot of people.
You feel that kind of hesitancy.
People are still kind of feeling it out.
But in spite of it all,
I just think the Python community
embraces people of all walks of life,
no matter where you're coming from.
Even flies like myself who tend to be,
you know, trying to masquerade as a bee.
Even so, I feel like it's a safe space to be vulnerable,
to learn a lot, and to teach a lot.
- Yeah, absolutely.
It's a very welcoming space, and we're stronger together.
That means we ought to take time to be together, right?
- Yeah, correct.
- Right on.
Well, thanks for taking the time to share your experience.
Great to see you.
- All right, awesome, thank you.
- Yeah, thanks.
Hey, Nick, how you doing?
- Hey, hey, Michael.
- Hey, it's good to see you.
- Good to see you too.
- Yeah, in person this time.
- Yes, in person.
- 'Cause last time it was on Python Bytes, right?
- Yes, last time it was on Python Bytes.
- Yeah, but here on PyCon.
- Yes, PyCon 2023.
- Yeah, so I just wanted to get together
with a couple of folks, including you,
and just ask, what's your PyCon experience this year?
How's it going?
- It has been actually quite amazing.
This year was the first time I gave a talk at PyCon.
My first ever talk.
- How'd it go?
- It went really well.
I think I felt so encouraged by the Python community,
people that came up to me and really appreciated
what I had to say and that made me feel more engaged
and wanted me to do it again.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, fantastic.
What was it on?
- It was on improving the transportation networks
using Python.
As a data scientist for Trimble Transportation,
I work in the transportation industry
and they face a lot of problems in terms of reducing waste,
optimizing their networks,
and that's what my team at Trimble do day to day.
So I needed to share with the Python community,
the kinds of things that we do
and try to really get at the core of it.
And show that we use really a lot of Python to do it.
- That sounds awesome.
I'm just kind of wondering as you're telling me that,
do you get extra frustrated at traffic jams and stuff?
'Cause you know behind the scenes
how much it could be better.
- I get frustrated at when my Amazon package
doesn't come on time.
- Yeah, okay.
But then again, I also feel a lot of empathy too,
because I know these drivers that are driving.
It's a lot.
- I think like half the traffic in the world
might actually be Amazon drivers.
(laughing)
But anyway, more, here hold on, let me move this real quick.
There we go.
Tell me about what you thought this year.
It seems like the conference,
people really happy to be back,
but what stood out for you?
- I think what stood out for me
is the number of new attendees we still got.
- Yeah, quite a few, yeah.
- Quite a few, and it's pretty amazing
because there were a lot of layoffs and economic struggles.
And the conferences, it's not like you're all free,
but people still came.
And I think that's partly due to the PSF
and the great work they do with their financial program.
- Right, some of the scholarships, yeah.
- Companies that we see here in the booth
really understanding the importance
of sending their people out here.
So it's really great to see all those first-time attendees.
Yeah.
- Yeah, excellent.
You said you're kind of trying
the hallway track out this year?
- Yes, that is a secret feature of PyCon.
- The one thing not on YouTube, not live stream,
none of that.
- None of that.
And I was at the keynotes with Ned Batch Elder
and he really talked about talking to people
because we have, and also like Marietta,
the chair of PyCon this year,
I talked about there's 2000 people here,
like over 2000 people here.
And this is the only time you're gonna get to talk to them.
So I opted, made a conscious effort.
- Yeah, sorry, I got cut off there, but the hallway track.
- Yeah, the hallway track.
- 'Cause Ned talked about talking to people.
- Yeah, Ned and Mariana talked about talking to people.
So I made a conscious effort to try and interact
with the fellow people that are walking around
this hallways and this expo booth
and does get into on this.
And I really got a lot of like really nice interactions.
I met up with old friends, people I met at PyCon,
that we're gonna do activities together and all that stuff.
So it's been really, really, really like fruitful.
- Yeah, awesome.
Well, great to run into you.
- Same, likewise.
- Yeah, yeah, thanks for taking the time
to talk to everyone and sharing your experience.
- Bye guys. - Bye.
- Bye.
- Hey, Sean.
- Hey, Mike, how's it going?
- It's fantastic to see you again.
And in person, imagine that.
- I know, first time in a few years, it's been great.
- It has, since the before times.
- I know, right?
- Since the before times.
But here we all are back together at PyCon.
Yeah, it's great.
Before we get into it,
just tell people quickly about yourself.
- Sure. - Fellow podcaster.
- Sure, so my name's Sean Tyber.
I'm a senior cloud engineer at Mondelz International,
which nobody knows except for we make all of the Oreos
and the Nilla wafers and Cadbury chocolates,
all the good stuff.
And we also do a lot of really cool stuff in the cloud.
So I'm also the co-host of the Teaching Python podcast.
I feel like I'm missing my right arm
Kelly couldn't make it this time.
- Shout out to Kelly.
Kelly, you should be here.
We miss you.
- Yeah, well, we'll get her next year, you know.
- Yes, exactly.
- Yeah, and just here running the education summit on Thursday and attending the rest
of the conference and enjoying it like any other Pythonista.
- How was the education summit?
- It's amazing.
We had some wonderful speakers, educators coming from all over the country, from all
over the world.
We had people speaking from as far away as South Korea at the education summit, and it's
It's the one time of year when people who are teaching computer science and teaching
Python specifically get a chance to come together and talk about what they do with other people.
It's just a unique experience.
Yeah, it's excellent.
And if you're teaching actual students, it's hard to get away, right?
You've got the school year and you've got a structure on that, so it's a big deal.
Yeah, it's been a great experience.
We did some workshops talking about the impact of generative AI on education, some of the
implications of that, and just tried to figure out what it's going to look like in the future.
So what did you decide, Chet, GPT is going to do to our education system?
Well, we still have way more questions than we have answers, but we also are looking at
it from the lens of there have been other tools that have transformed education.
Calculators were supposed to ruin the teaching of math, and yet we figured that out.
So we're confident we can do the same here.
Same thing for search and the internet also kind of broke it, right?
How are you going to test if people know history?
If they can just type in, when was the war of 1812?
Right.
what we found is that these are skills that we can teach.
We can teach students how to search more effectively,
how to find things, how to solve problems.
And I think with generative AI,
it's about how to evaluate what's happening,
what you're asking for,
and making sure that it is appropriate
to the problem you're trying to solve.
- How do you ask good questions,
and then how do you assess whether it's real,
whether it's ed?
- Exactly. - Interesting.
All right, well, what stood out for you
at the show so far?
How's it been?
- I mean, it's the people.
Like always, it's the people getting to see everyone,
getting to have those great conversations,
to sit down and have lunch together and talk about things
and just, I find myself looking at everyone's badges
to figure out where they're coming from
and what kind of cool work they're doing.
And I'm just curious about how they're using Python
and how I could connect with them
and make something cool happen together.
- It's always surprising.
You run into such cool people.
And that is my favorite part as well.
It's just kind of the, honestly, the hallway track.
I know, not dissing the speakers.
I'm looking forward to those talks on YouTube,
but it's the parts that are not recorded
and are spontaneous that really make it
worth coming to, I think.
- That's true.
And I've been enjoying the talks too.
There's been some really phenomenal talk tracks this year.
We're just seeing, I think, a new wave of energy
coming out of the pandemic.
And I can't wait to go to Pittsburgh next year
and do this all again.
- I know, that'd be awesome.
Well, thanks for taking the time to share your experience.
- It's my pleasure, Michael, thanks.
- You bet, bye.
- Bye.
- Hey, Chris.
Really good. Really good. Enjoying PyCon. How about you?
I am having an absolute blast here.
It's always fun, isn't it?
Oh, it's... This is my favorite conference. The energy, the vibe, the people, the willingness
to share is bar none the best conference that I've ever attended. And I've been to a lot.
Yeah, I know you have. It really is unique in that regard. Tell people quickly about yourself.
Hey everybody, my name is Chris Williams. I am the host of the vBrownBag podcast.
I'm a dev rel manager for HashiCorp and an AWS hero.
Yeah, awesome. And I've been on your brown bag a few times. That's been very fun.
You're a friend of the vBrownBag show. I am a friend of Talk Python.
That is right. Yeah, we're all friends here. It's amazing.
Yay.
So, how's this conference going for you? How is it in 2023?
It's been going really well. I'm glad that there's a bit more energy than last year. There's more
interest. I think people are just exuberant to be out of the house and meeting new folks
and getting back into the vibe of the before times. What are we good for?
We miss people, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Zoom is fine.
But it's not a patch on actually hanging out with folks.
It's not a replacement. That's right.
Correct. Yeah, totally.
So what's your game plan here? Are you on hit all of the talks? Are you on hallway track? Are you
trying to get all the swag? What's going on here? So I'm actually changing it up a little bit this
year. I love the hallway track and meeting folks. So I found an entire contingent of people in
Boston that I didn't even know were out there. The keynotes have been... I am now trying to find
ways to improve my public speaking. So paying attention to truly good folks like James and Ned
and their keynotes were masterclasses in presentation and humorous pauses and things
like that. And so I'm furiously scribbling down notes like, "Oh, that sounded great. I'm going
to try that." - Yeah, you can watch the talks, you can attend the talks, or you can study the talks.
Whenever I go there, as somebody who's done a ton of public speaking, I'm like, "That was nice." I
I don't know if people caught that, but they appreciated that.
Yes.
So yeah, that's good.
So I'm doing the keynotes as a study session.
I am doing the hallway track.
Generally, if something is going to be recorded, I will catch it after the fact.
So I tend to not do them unless there's something that I want to talk to the
presenter about, like on the spot, then I will tend that.
But I'm just trying to catch up with some friends.
a good friend of mine spent an inordinate amount of time teaching me new things in Python over the
past couple of days. He's a contributor, and he was showing me some stuff that as a newbie
developer, I'm kind of too dumb to know the right questions to ask. And I know that people don't
like saying you're too dumb. Nobody's too dumb. >> There's no dumb questions. But, well, you do
need to sort of find your way, right? >> The questions that I don't know I need to ask yet.
- Yeah, sure. - Exactly.
So, yeah, it's just been really good to catch up with folks,
learn new things, and absorb as much as humanly possible in three days.
Ah, yeah, it is tiring, but it's fun.
- Converse is fun, after parties are fun. - Yep, yep.
Yeah, really, really good stuff, so thanks.
Before I let you out here, what in Python are you excited about right now?
So, I'm gonna be checking out the new releases in 3.12.
They're making some announcements on fStrings that I need to dig into.
like that we're making f-strings better. I'm like, okay, how? So I'm gonna be doing a lot of googling
after everything is said and done to figure it out. And as a content creator myself, I will be
spending a lot of time parsing through the stuff that I've been making and just finding new ways to
reach out to people, get content. I mean, I don't know about you, but for me, this whole
experience is a great way to find interesting people to talk to. You could have people on
V. Brown bag, right? There's a bunch of resumes they didn't know they submitted to you.
Mike: Oh, absolutely. I've been scribbling down names and my little notepad on my phone
is filling up furiously as I find people to pester after this.
RG: Awesome. Well, thanks for taking the time to share your thoughts.
Mike: Thanks, Mike. Appreciate it.
RG: Yeah, you bet. Bye. Hey, Ray.
Ray McLendon (00:01:00): Hey.
RG: How are you doing?
Ray McLendon (00:01:01): I'm doing wonderful.
RG: Great to meet you.
Ray McLendon (00:01:03): You as well. Yes, yes, yes.
RG: Thank you. Tell people quick who you are, a bit about yourself.
Let's see. So I'm Ray McLendon. I'm actually a data scientist at the Kansas City Fed.
I mostly work in natural language processing, that kind of fun stuff.
Yeah. Oh, that sounds really awesome. Yeah. So just talking to people about
their PyCon experience and how many times you've been here?
So this is my second PyCon. My first one was last year, sort of like right on the back of
everybody getting back together from the pandemic.
Yeah. So I'm not sure how representative your experience was last time. It was a little,
a little different, but how was it this year? Oh, I'm really enjoying it. I actually gave a
tutorial this year, which was exciting. Feature engineering is for everyone. So trying to just
kind of share our knowledge of feature engineering, I co-presented that with a,
with a coworker of mine, Leah. And yeah, it was fantastic. We had a great time.
Yeah. You had a good experience doing it? Absolutely. Looking forward to doing it again.
Cool.
And what library is that like PyTorch or what was it?
Oh, that's really interesting.
So it was a mix.
There was some exploration with Y data profiler.
Okay.
And then there was building various features.
Some of it was kind of just using pandas or NumPy and scikit-learn.
We use some of the libraries for feature engineering that are built into that.
So it was a mix of libraries.
Yeah.
Cool.
Well, what stood out to you so far this year?
Well, I guess the interesting part that I did was I went to open spaces.
I didn't do that the previous year.
And I went to one this year around civic data.
So that was really fascinating.
Yeah.
Enjoyed the real community vibe and learning about, I guess, honestly, how
difficult it is to get your hands on civic data, quite frankly.
Yeah.
I can imagine that it is, but you know, we can complain a lot about
the government and systems.
And that's easy to do, but at the same time,
like we have all this technology and all this data
and people can really put in, you know, make a difference.
You know, I see actually the US Digital Services
have a booth over there, right?
And that's kind of like trying to bring people in
from industry to say like, look, you built Instagram,
now could you help us build something else
for the government that we could, so people won't complain.
It's kind of cool, actually.
- Yeah, so they were at the Civic Data Group.
- Oh, they were?
I hate to say it, I had never heard of the US digital service before.
So I was really excited to hear about the efforts and the work that they're doing, including
some of the best practices guides around UX and UI that they even provide.
It's a very cool service.
I interviewed David on Talk Python years ago, but maybe I should talk to him again.
But anyway, it's a cool service.
So what stood out to you this year?
- Strangely enough, I come to PyCon,
I expect some really technical talks, to be honest.
That's an expectation.
It was really the keynote from the first day with Ted,
where he kind of broke down communication.
- Yeah.
- That strangely, that was the thing
that stood out the most to me.
- I've heard so many good things from his keynote,
and I was doing, preparing for a live event
that started the minute it ended,
so I couldn't be there, like, oh,
but I'm gonna watch it on YouTube,
and I'll check it out, so cool.
- Absolutely.
Yeah, you've been walking around doing the hallway track a little bit as well and joining
me and people?
That's right.
Yeah, I sure have.
I've bumped into a few folks and we've been throwing ideas around.
You know, I'm really big into the whole GPT thing.
Oh, it's crazy.
Yeah, it's pretty wild.
Yeah.
So it's been interesting to see some folks that are really thinking deeply about ethics
and security in that space and giving me new ideas to bring back.
Yeah, cool.
- We have a lot of ML and a lot of AI stuff
around here this year.
- Alright.
- Well, thanks for being on the show.
Thanks for taking the time.